
**EN** | [RU][ru]

| < Back | Course | Next > |
|-|-|-|
| Not available | [1. Introduction][course] | [1.2. Screen color][1.2.ScreenColor] |

# 1.1. Distribute

In this tutorial we start education by learning to distribute web version of
the simplest `ogstudio` game.

Estimated completion time: 5 minutes.

# Table of contents

* [Web version of ogstudio](#ogstudio)
* [Distribute with GitHub Pages](#distribute)
* [Run the game](#index)
* [Access debug console](#debug)
* [Summary](#summary)

<a name="ogstudio"/>

# Web version of ogstudio

Even though `ogstudio` allows to create native games for desktop and mobile,
we are going to concentrate on web version because it is easy to distribute
to all devices at once.

Web version of `ogstudio` consists of the following files:

* `index.html`
    * main file to open by users with a web browser
    * render window occupies full page
* `ogstudio-<version>.js`
    * C++ code converted into JavaScript by [Emscripten][emscripten]
* `ogstudio-<version>.html.mem`
    * Auxiliary file generated by [Emscripten][emscripten]
* `debug.html`
    * secondary file to open by developers with a web browser
    * render window occupies only part of the page
    * contains debug console

<a name="distribute"/>

# Distribute with GitHub Pages

In our case, the simplest game is just an empty render window.

Let's distribute the game with [GitHub Pages][github-pages].

| № | Action | Notes | Screenshot |
|-|-|-|-|
| 1. | Go to `Settings` | | ![screen-settings] |
| 2. | Select `master branch` as the source | Under `GitHub Pages` section | ![screen-source] |
| 3. | Hit `Save` | | ![screen-save] |
| 4. | Verify activation | | ![screen-activation] |
| 5. | Wait for publishing | | ![screen-published] |

<a name="index"/>

# Run the game

**Note**: your web browser **must** have [`WebGL` enabled and working][webgl].

![screen-index]

Click on the link `GitHub Pages` gave you. You should see an empty render window.

<a name="debug"/>

# Access debug console

![screen-debug]

Append `/debug.html` to the end of URL and hit `Enter` to access the same game with
debug console enabled.

Debug console is an important tool to debug your `ogstudio` games.

<a name="summary"/>

# Summary

You have successfully distributed web version of the simplest `ogstudio` game.
Now you can share the game with anyone who has more or less modern [web browser
with `WebGL` support][webgl].

| < Back | Course | Next > |
|-|-|-|
| Not available | [1. Introduction][course] | [1.2. Screen color][1.2.ScreenColor] |

[ru]: README-ru.md

[course]: ../../README.md
[1.2.ScreenColor]: ../1.2.ScreenColor/README.md

[github-pages]: https://pages.github.com
[emscripten]: http://emscripten.org
[webgl]: https://get.webgl.org

[screen-settings]: readme/settings.png
[screen-source]: readme/source.png
[screen-save]: readme/save.png
[screen-activation]: readme/activation.png
[screen-published]: readme/published.png
[screen-index]: readme/screen-index.png
[screen-debug]: readme/screen-debug.png
